Init error tracking guides and concepts (#12404)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/error-tracking/grouping-issues.mdx

---
title: Grouping exceptions into issues
---

import { CalloutBox } from 'components/Docs/CalloutBox'

Issues are created by grouping together similar exception events. When **no custom grouping behavior is configured**, exceptions are grouped together automatically based on their [fingerprint](/docs/error-tracking/fingerprints). 

> We're working on improving our grouping algorithm. If you spot two issues that you think should have been one, or one issue that you think should have been split into two, please [let us know in-app](https://app.posthog.com#panel=support%3Afeedback%3Aerror_tracking%3Alow%3Atrue).

PostHog's default grouping logic may not work for every use case, making custom grouping a useful option. For example, you may want to group exceptions into issues by:

- Business logic, like all errors that occur at checkout
- Specific service, like all error messages containing `postgres`
- Specific feature, like all error messages containing `feature_flag_variant_a`

> Custom grouping is especially important if you rely on [assigning issues](/docs/error-tracking/assigning-issues) to specific teams or users to resolve them, or if you configure [alerts](/docs/error-tracking/alerts) to notify specific teams when issues are created or reopened. 

Author: Done

### Option 2: Client-side fingerprint

Every captured exception is assigned a [fingerprint](/docs/error-tracking/fingerprints) by PostHog during ingestion, which is used for grouping. You can override this by setting the `$exception_fingerprint` property when capturing exceptions.

```js
posthog.captureException(error, { $exception_fingerprint: "MyCustomGroup" })
```

If the exception is autocaptured, you need to modify the properties before the event is sent. The PostHog config offers a [`before_send`](/docs/libraries/js/features#amending-or-sampling-events) hook that fires for each event which you can use to alter event and add the property:

```javascript
posthog.init("<ph_project_api_key>", {
  before_send: (event) => {
    if (event.event === "$exception") {
      const exceptionList = event.properties["$exception_list"] || []
      const exception = exceptionList.length > 0 ? exceptionList[0] : null;

      if (exception && exception["$exception_type"] == "SyntaxError") {
        event.properties["$exception_fingerprint"] = "MyCustomGroup"
      }    
    }
    return event
  }
})
```

> ## Grouping rule best practices

Reviewer: yea, that makes sense

@gewenyu99 I think we can transfer all of these "best practices" and "solve use-cases with property filters" suggestions to the issue assignment page

When grouping exceptions into issues, it's important to consider what you might do with the issues once created. For example, you might:

> - Group exceptions by areas of ownership, so you can easily identify and assign an issue to the appropriate team. 

Reviewer 2: We have assignment / assignment rules for this
```suggestion
```

- Group high urgency exceptions by a specific services or routes that have higher business impact.
- Group exceptions by specific features, especially when they're new or experimental.

How you group exceptions into issues is up to you, but it's important to consider how you'll use these issues and communicate with your team.

Grouping rules are evaluated in the order they are configured. The first rule that matches will be used to group exceptions into an issue. This means you should configure the most specific rules first, and then the more general rules. If you configure a catch-all rule first, it will always match and block other rules from being evaluated.

## How PostHog prioritizes issue grouping logic

PostHog prioritizes issue grouping logic in the following order:

1. Client-side defined custom fingerprint using `$exception_fingerprint`
2. Match custom grouping rules defined in PostHog

> 3. If no user defined logic, fall back to automatic fingerprinting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. If no user defined logic, fall back to grouping as issues based on automatic fingerprinting
```

PostHog generates a fingerprint based on the exception during ingestion. Setting the `$exception_fingerprint` property on the frontend will override the default flow to allow for custom grouping of certain exceptions.

When using the `captureException` method, you can provide `$exception_fingerprint` as an additional property in the function's second argument.

```js
posthog.captureException(error, { $exception_fingerprint: "MyCustomGroup" })
```

If the exception is autocaptured, you need to modify the properties before the event is sent. The PostHog config offers a [`before_send`](/docs/libraries/js/features#amending-or-sampling-events) hook that fires for each event which you can use to alter event and add the property:

```javascript
posthog.init("<ph_project_api_key>", {
  before_send: (event) => {
    if (event.event === "$exception") {
      const exceptionList = event.properties["$exception_list"] || []
      const exception = exceptionList.length > 0 ? exceptionList[0] : null;

      if (exception && exception["$exception_type"] == "SyntaxError") {
        event.properties["$exception_fingerprint"] = "MyCustomGroup"
      }    
    }
    return event
  }
})
```

> ### Option 2: Custom grouping rule

Reviewer 3: I get custom group rules comes first, but as an *option* group rules seems better.

3. Click the **+ Add filter** button to add a new filter. These filters can be configured to match any [event property](/docs/data/events) in PostHog. 
4. Click **Save** to create the rule.

Here are some common exception event properties you can filter on:

| Property | Event property | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Exception type | `$exception_type` | The type of exception that occurred. |
| Exception message | `$exception_message` | The message detected on the error. |
| Exception source | `$exception_sources` | The source file(s) where the exception occurred. |
| Exception level | `$exception_level` | The level of the severity of the error. |
| Exception was handled | `$exception_handled` | Whether the exception was handled by the application. |

You can also set custom properties on the error tracking event to filter on. You can find more about custom properties on exception capture in the [capture guide](/docs/error-tracking/capture).

## Grouping rule best practices

When grouping exceptions into issues, it's important to consider what you might do with the issues once created. For example, you might:

> - Group exceptions by areas of ownership so you can easily identify and assign an issue to the appropriate team. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Group exceptions by areas of ownership, so you can easily identify and assign an issue to the appropriate team. 
```

- Group high urgency exceptions by a specific services or routes that have higher business impact.
- Group exceptions by specific features, especially when they're new or experimental.

How you group exceptions into issues is up to you, but it's important to consider how you'll use these issues and communicate with your team.

Grouping rules are evaluated in the order they are configured. The first rule that matches will be used to group exceptions into an issue. This means you should configure the most specific rules first, and then the more general rules. If you configure a catch-all rule first, it will always match and block other rules from being evaluated.

## How PostHog prioritizes issue grouping logic

> More broadly, PostHog will prioritize issue grouping logic in the following order:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
PostHog prioritizes issue grouping logic in the following order:
```

- Grouping exceptions by business logic, like all errors that occur at checkout
- Grouping exceptions by specific service, like all error messages containing `postgres`
- Grouping exceptions by specific feature, like all error messages containing `feature_flag_variant_a`

You should consider your unique needs to determine if you need to configure custom issue grouping behavior. Keep in mind that grouping can be very important if you rely on [assigning issues](/docs/error-tracking/assigning-issues) to specific teams or users to resolve them, or if you configure [alerts](/docs/error-tracking/alerts) to notify specific teams when issues are created or reopened. 

## Custom issue grouping

PostHog attempts to group similar exceptions into issues automatically. If you want more control over issue grouping, you can define a client-side fingerprint or use custom grouping rules during ingestion.

### Option 1: Client-side fingerprint

Every captured exception is assigned a [fingerprint](/docs/error-tracking/fingerprints) by PostHog, which is used to group similar exception events into issues. You can also set fingerprints manually during client-side capture.

> An `$exception_fingerprint` property is generated during ingestion by PostHog and used to perform this grouping. Setting the `$exception_fingerprint` property on the frontend will override the default flow to allow for custom grouping of certain exceptions.

Author: ```suggestion
PostHog generates a fingerprint based on the exception during ingestion..Setting the `$exception_fingerprint` property on the frontend will override the default flow to allow for custom grouping of certain exceptions.
```
